### Do you work on a flexitime basis? If so, how is it? If not, would you like to?
Yes, I am working now on flextime. Nowadays it is a popular system of work because the pandemic situation forces us to change a little life cycle of working.In my opinion, flexible working hours have many pros and cons. The Advantages of working in this system for example are:  reduce cost of transport (i think about avoiding traffic), increase job satisfaction, better manage day time etc. But other ways flexitime could be used by employers and force us to work overtime and this is a huge disadvantage because workers could start to think that the work day is never ending.  Highly significant in this situation is to have knowledge with work-life balance. Work-life balance should be studied by employees and also employers.  To sum up, flexitime could be just what employees need but essential crucial is knowing when hours of work will finish to find time for our family, hobbies etc.
#### 2022-01-04



### In the exercise 'The morning after,' the verbs 'forget' and 'remember' are used. How is your memory? Is it getting worse with age, and have you forgotten anything important recently?
That is a good question. Even though I still try to convince myself that I am still young, time is running out. But, in my point of view, my memory is still as good as possible. Sometimes I catch myself forgetting something but it is connected with the times we live in now. Nowadays computers and mobile phones should help us but I don't know if that helps us or gives us more tasks to do. New technologies give us the opportunity to do everything faster like pay for the bills but we also have another side of these facilities. Sometimes I forget to pay on time for some subscriptions or bills for mobile, internet, remote lessons and so one because those things are a lot and too much. Sometimes I miss the easiest life like in the past. I miss that time when books and music from the stereo was enough for us. Nowadays life is very fast and our brain memory is too small for the reality around us. To sum up, the immensely crucial thing is a little stop to give brain more comfortable space to work
#### 2021-12-15


### According to the exercise 'It's not so easy,' low income and unemployment can lead to poverty. Are low wages and unemployment major problems in your country? If so, are they improving or getting worse?
In the main point of view, nowadays, we don’t have a problem with unemployment. Situation in my country is amazingly correct. Statistical research gives us information about low then 5% unemployment. But everyone in this area of Europe knows that low unemployment  is connected with low wages. That is the main reason why a lot of huge companies like Amazon,  Dell etc. relocate factories to my country. Every year wages are higher and higher but still are low if we compare with the rest of Europe. What is more, nowadays we have big inflation and prices in stores are growing very fast. This is an immensely crucial problem for society and government. To sum up, we needn't complain so much, because every year is much better than in the past. Poland is growing up so fast and only we should consider more support for our environment and be more green :) 
#### 2021-12-02


### Do you play any sport regularly? Which one? How often?
Yes, I regularly try running. It is highly significant for me because I still fight with my weight. My lifestyle unfortunately isn't healthy as a result of working as a programmer.  I spend a lot of hours in front  of the computer every day and many years ago decided to find some good activity for me. In my point of view, running is the easiest way for people in a situation like mine. You can go to the nearest park and run. All you need is comfortable clothes and a speciale a shoes. What is more, any gym is a good place for running also. I try to spend time there twice a week. Also a crucial positive point of running is good influence for our mind. It is highly recommended especially in the autumn and winter season while many people have mental problems because the day is short and sun shining is very rare. To sum up, I recommend this activity for everyone, especially those who are overweight and want to have more positive energy. 
#### 2021-11-16


### Would you consider going to Canada on vacation? Why, or why not?
I have never been to Canada, but I think this country is beautiful and many tourists love to travel there. Unfortunately, this country isn't on my list of most popular attractions to see. I know a lot about Canada, they have beautiful cities, national parks, rivers  and mountains. What is more, they have access to the oceans, seas and artica area. Everything is very interesting, but unfortunately they also have weather conditions like in my country. We also have a lot of similar attractions in my country and if I want to see arctica area it is more convenient and cheaper for me to go to skandynawia countries. That’s why when I try to decide about a destination on vacation, I always try to find a place with beautiful weather and space for surfing. But summarizing the topic, Canada stays in my options to visit in the future but not so fast. In the first place I want to visit places with beautiful beaches  and a lot of sun. 
#### 2021-10-14

### Tell me about an extremely cold winter or any other period of extreme weather that you've experienced.
It is a funny topic, because I live in a country where we have extremely cold winters quite often. It is hard to manage the situation of streets in the city when we have winter. Fortunately we have a special group of road services to support us in that hard situation. But every year when snow starts falling the first day is extremely hard. For everyone and this road service, it is a shock that so much snow has fallen down and all cities stop in traffic jams. One year I remember that there was so much snow that all the city stopped. People left their cars and went home on foot. They had to went on the foot because stopped also all public transport. What is more, it was the first day of winter. In my country we have a very popular quote “As every year, again winter surprised our road services “. But people understand that it is hard for road services when they are surprised and they have to have  a little time to start to manage our public roads in the city. It's a little like your first day in a new job. You don’t know what to expect :)
#### 2021-10-01

### In your opinion, how can developing countries reduce debt?
Fiscal and monetary policy are areas where decisions are very important for countries. In my opinion, developing countries have many options to reduce debt. Many times we heard that the solution to reduce debt is to increase tax but it isn't a good idea.  I’m not a specialist but developing countries  should invest more  in new technologie, specialist workers and knowledge. By knowledge I mean support universities and convince young people to study. Also good options are supporting entrepreneurs and trying to build a competitive industry and business. What is more, politicians should consider supporting society's budget and convince people to spend money so that the economy accelerates. All described proposals should strengthen trade and increase cash flow from the taxes. As I mentioned, I am not a specialist, but I think that the more cash from taxes flows into the state budget, the less money is needed form the loan. 
#### 2021-09-20

### Name one commodity you would consider investing in. And please tell me why!
If I was a risk taker I would have invested in renewable energy sources because all populations don’t have other options,  they have to change their approach to the environment. I try to be a green eco man and the environment is important for me. Fortunately a lot of governments want to change politics and produce energy without fossil fuel but in my opinion it is too slow. World has a lot of options like solar radiation, water, wind, energy from solid and liquid biomass, geothermal energy, and tidal and ocean currents to produce energy. Maybe it will be a good idea to invest in green companies. I can't imagine that we will not use this chance and we will leave fossil fuel. If not, in the future we will have to find a new planet to live and maybe it will be a good option to invest in a company like Spacex. 
#### 2021-09-06

### In the dialogue, one of the speakers describes why impressionist paintings are good for offices. Why do you agree or disagree with her?
It is hard to say. In my opinion impressionist painters are not good for the office. Impressionist paintings showing nature, people and they are full of beautiful color. That is too distracting. Nowadays offices are modern and should have modern paintings because this type of art is very interesting and draws attention. It is important because displaying art in the workplace can elevate employee performance, mood, and physical well-being, as well as bolster interpersonal bonds between employees and clients. Well-considered art decisions for the workplace give workers convenience and attractiveness. What is more, our brains hold onto memorable environmental features, art can usefully function as a landmark, helping people traveling through a space to remember where they have been. In summary, art is a good idea for our office, but we must carefully choose the type of art.
#### 2021-07-22

### Some people believe the Australian beaches are absolutely fantastic. What is there in your country that you would describe as 'absolutely fantastic'?
Mountains in Poland are, next to the Baltic Sea and lakes, one of the biggest attractions for tourists who value contact with nature. Mountains in Poland include 3 main mountain ranges: Sudetes , Carpathians and Świętokrzyskie Mountains and 28 smaller mountain ranges within them. The highest and the youngest are the Carpathians with the Tatra Mountains, and the oldest and lowest are the Świętokrzyskie Mountains. Those who like mountain hiking can choose among various trails in Poland, including trails suitable for families with children, seniors, and all those who love nature. The town of Zakopane is in the heart of the Polish Tatra Mountains, serving as a starting point for hiking trails for amateurs as well as experienced hikers. There are 275 km of marked hiking trails. The highest peak in Polish Tatras Rysy is 2,499 m but the mountains are rich in trails suitable for families with children, seniors, and all those who love nature.
#### 2021-07-21

### When you go shopping, do you prefer to be outdoors in the city center or in a shopping mall? Why?
To answer this question, I have to answer it depending on the situation :) The city center is close to my mind, because I don’t like crowds and close spaces. I feel more comfortable in the fresh air and the best options are various kinds of fairs. But my wife and daughters love shopping malls and sometimes I have to spend time in shopping malls. It is a pleasure for me when I go there to buy something for myself. But when I don’t have plans to buy something for myself it is boring and very often I am nervous and I don’t know wny? Probably it is a waste of time for me but I want to be a good husband and father and I try not to complain when I am in a shopping mall with my family. Fortunately technologies help me and ofen I try to find some place to sit in front of the shop, live ther my girls and surf the internet on my phone.  Thank God for iphone and 5G :) 
#### 2021-06-20
